- yen you go to the direct action
everywhere website and search the word
vegan up pops intrinsically moved the
main reason consumerist advocacy is the
wrong approach you see it stop talking
about veganism then it also says
veganism is not cruelty-free and then it
says how the go vegan message
perpetuates the objectification of
nonhumans so I'm really not finding
anything positive about going vegan from
DXE Wayne and I I think that before the
break Gary was saying like well what is
somebody supposed to do you know I mean
you say okay well you want to enter and
intervene if somebody's beating a dog on
the street you have a nine billion
animals who are being slashed to death I
don't know do we go to the
slaughterhouses and turn off the
electricity or do we go vegan what what
does until every animal is free mean to
you and and and how do we achieve
standing up in ship hotly and saying
it's not food it's violence how is there
any more quote action end quote
than then labeling and spending hours
talking to people about why they should
go vegan if they regard animals as
members of the moral community
you're obstructing our business we have
been stolen why is there any more action
why not it's absolutely not Gary and I
think they're both very important forms
of activism but I just want to pose
maybe a rhetorical question for the two
of you have either of you actually ever
been inside one of these places of
violence when these houses Wayne how
many of you been in I've been in
probably about 60 and I've investigated
many of them not not consensually but in
the cover of night and when you've been
inside of these facilities over and over
again not on a tour not on a visit but
to identify the most terrible abuses
that are happening behind these closed
doors there's something that changing
you and I was in a northern California
wholefoods farm just a few months ago
and what you see when you go inside
these farms is an urgent and desperate
need for action now hens that are
covered with filth dying dozens of them
already dead laying in piles everywhere
hens that can barely even breathe
because the air is so filled with sulfur
dioxide and filth that it burns their
throat every breath they take and the
recently this sort of violent way over
and over again it inspires you to action
because for every one that you say and
we did save a number of these hens from
this facility there are literally
thousands who are left behind
action Gary let me finish I let you talk
and I don't know rumps I'd appreciate it
if you didn't interrupt me it inspires
you and gives you a sense of just how
important it is to take direct and
immediate action to rescue these animals
but this is not just an emotional
reaction could I finish all this Gary I
don't try to live it I just had one
thought Gary and I'm just about done can
I just finish it what thought because
this isn't just an emotional reaction we
say we need to take nonviolent direct
action and not just settle veganism
because as a social
scientist who has studied social
movements for the past 10 years of my
life with some of the best scholars in
the world I can tell you that
non-violent direct action has the power
to change the world the Underground
Railroad brought down the system of
chattel slavery when free produce could
not Emmeline Pankhurst disruptions of
Parliament not education but disruption
brought women the right to vote in the
United Kingdom and from the United
Kingdom the world and the only who was
willing to take waitwait says he has one
sentence left so let the little item so
Erica Chenoweth the political scientist
who won the prize for being the best
political scientist in 2013 has studied
hundreds of social women's over the past
200 years and has said that all you need
is three point five percent of the
population at a maximum three point five
percent of the population engaged and
nonviolent direct action disruption and
you're guaranteed to win most social
movements win with far less so all we
need to do is convince two out of a
hundred people to go out there and yes
disrupting chipotle just suck the whole
foods just up the slaughterhouse our
factory farm disrupt all of them and we
will bring so much attention to this
cause that the issue of animal rights
will be on the New York Times front page
every day of the year going vegan is
nonviolent direct action so social
science exactly the social science
studies that I've seen talk about 10% of
a population and I'm all in favor trying
to get the 10% so that we can change the
conversation but I think Wayne you've
simplified those those social science
findings but let's not what I want to
talk about you rescued a couple of hen
and you you Poe
you know you post all this stuff this
this this this material that promotes
your organization this idea that you are
involved like on a daily basis with
going and disrupting all you're doing is
standing up in chapala saying it's not
food it's violence and you don't even
have a vegan message you partner with
organizations that send public letters
the whole foods expressing their
appreciation and support including Bruce
Friedrich including PETA including Farm
Sanctuary including compassion over
killing including vegan outreach these
organizations support whole food those
are the groups that you thing
we need to build bridges with those are
the groups that you talked about
supporting incremental reform as long as
it's sustainable
I mean Wayne what are we talking about
here and I'm also looking at Animal
Liberation because you astonish me
waiting for somebody who's been studying
things for 10 years you really need to
read Animal Liberation granted even here
killing still seems repugnant an animal
may struggle against a threat to its
life even if they cannot grasp that it
has a life in the sense that requires an
understanding of what it is to exist
over a period of time but in the absence
of some form of mental continuity it is
not easy to explain why the loss to the
animal killed is not from an impartial
point of view made good by the creation
of a new animal who will lead an equally
pleasant life there you go Wayne that's
animal liberation from way back then and
you're telling me that that you're that
you use Animal Liberation because you
agree with what Peter Singer said back
then well sorry that's what he said back
then maybe you ought to think about
reading the book and changing the
location because it's not a matter of
terminology it's a very important matter
of substance Gary we can have a debate
about what Peter Singer believed in 1975
I think it would be better to ask him
directly
but the reality is we are not working to
Peter Singer we are not working with
brusque readers we are challenging them
I agree completely that welfarism makes
people complacent but there is no
evidence that it leads to real
improvements for animals in the short or
long term
if we want to problematize animal
welfare and we want to problematize the
humane meat scam then we are doing it
and I'm asking you Gary what have you
done over the past year to problematize
the humane myth or to encourage animal
rights activist to challenge it
I think that's progress we should know
if lanes whole food is full of meat I
have news for you okay I don't know what
you think you've done number one number
two as far as what people in the welfare
movement concern I can document for you
the fact that they have been talking out
of they talk out of both sides of their
mouth so you can say well Ingrid has
attacked the Humane myth at the same
time that I'm looking at a website from
Bell & Evans chicken where Ingrid is
talking about how Bell & Evans has set a
new standard with the chicken industry
so they talked out of different sides of
their fundraising mouths I can't doubt
that indeed indeed I've been pointing
that out for a number of years now but
the idea what is this this idea what
have you been doing to show that the
that the whole humane exploitation thing
is a scam Wayne I and every date of
death investigation in New York Times
Gary I'm sorry we had an investigation
of a humane farm there was in the New
York Times it over foggy many people
around the world song we have thousands
of people right into a sing during comes
out Wayne what comes out is that you're
attacking the idea that these places are
humane you're not attacking the use and
you're not attacking use your attacking
treatment just like MFA does just like
compassion over killing does just like
all of these other groups do you attack
treatment you don't attack use the only
way you can attack use if they have a
vegan message and you said it before
well I copied it down Wayne I hope it's
an accurate quote you said I do not
agree that veganism is the moral
baseline action is the moral baseline
Wayne I'm sorry that is absolutely
incoherent you need to have a theory to
inform your action this idea that we
don't have to go vegan that veganism is
an impediment to the animal movement but
we need action what are you talking
about that is incoherent Jerry I don't
think anyone who's currently involved in
THC thinks veganism is an impediment to
the animal rights movement I know
there's some blog posts written by
another organizer and we do allow a lot
of diversity of opinion within DXE but
all of us agree that veganism is a
necessary condition to achieving animal
liberation but our perspective
is just that we have to go beyond that
and again Gary I let's start can we
start with the dog right in front of you
do you think inaction is enough or do
you think we have to go something to
something beyond that and if we do want
to go to something beyond there why not
ask people for what we should be asking
them for action for animals instead of
just their own personal lives right away
wait why do we need investigation what
do we need to discover they're killing
the animals whether they're doing it
nicely or whether they're doing it not
nicely they're killing the animals for
an investigation for except for
fundraising white did fundraise not that
investigation a single dog but Gary do
you believe that your main base Wayne
Wayne Wayne wait you're on radio now
you're telling me you're telling me that
you've got no no donations for your
activist stipend as these not put out a
single solicitation for funds after that
investigation not a single one our 2014
budget was four thousand dollars which
is ten thousand dollars ten thousand
times less than it is a hundred thousand
times less distressed
it's really an astonishing conversation
we had here it seems that Wayne you have
confirmed your support for Bruce
Friedrich and the the groups with whom
he is associated what's what's
astonishing to me is how you how you
support him when you know I mean you're
probably rescuing chickens from the
conditions he's created with support his
support Farm Sanctuary support all these
group support for the egg products
Inspection Act and enrich cages are now
the humane standards so go rescue
chickens from the conditions created by
bruce friedrich wayne says first if our
goal is network building it's absolutely
vital to emphasize that our model of
activism building a movement for
non-violent direct action complements
many of the strategies taken by other
groups if we are successful as i fully
expect we will be our activism will make
the lobbying outreach and education that
bruce friedrich does exponentially more
effective wayne as i've been trying to
say for years these groups are the meat
industry they are butchers i don't know
how you don't see that and i don't see
why why you're not protesting against
bruce for the conditions he created from
which you have to rescue chickens
nonviolent direct action is a strong is
it more important to be an activist or a
vegan if you had your choice and if we
are confident that we can win the debate
our main objective is activist and as a
movement has to be to bring attention to
this issue and with over 200 press
articles about our campaigns and
investigations over the past year we
have brought a massive amount of
attention to this issue and we're
winning that argument your branding
Wayne and I I agree you're doing a good
job of branding I'm looking at your
website where you talk about your
groundbreaking investigations and
there's our big fat red donate button so
please do not say that you are not
fundraising off of your investigations
it's on your page point number one point
number two the idea that you know the
this idea that we can be activists but
we don't have to be vegan is content
list nonsense it is content list
nonsense did anyone say that Gary I'm
sorry did anyone say that what that we
can be active effective activists about
being vegan I don't think anyone said
like you I think Wayne what we said is
that to be an effective at Wayne Wayne
you see I'm trying to have a discussion
Wayne I don't want to hear your speeches
I'd like to have a discussion with you
sure and I'm trying to have a discussion
and I have to I have to
I can't engage you I have to wait until
you get done so please let me if we're
gonna do it that way let me get done
what you said was I do not believe that
veganism is the moral baseline action is
the moral baseline that's what you said
that's a quote do you deny saying that
because you did so you tell me how that
makes sense to you because I think that
is content with nonsense
[Music]
evolution